# GTAvaToon

# This is Pre-Alpha, missing major features and will change significantly. Don't yet waste time trying to use this unless your a rather advanced Unity dev wanting to help me sort some issues out in it and are on-board with my somewhat odd intents.

## What?

This is an Avatar Toon Shader intended to be used in VRChat. This shader focuses less on flashy effects, less on offering variety and more specifically on a particular style of shading. This particular style of shading is also a complete abomination to all conceptions of "Good Physically Based Lighting". It's also an abomination to some concepts of Toon shading too! 

My general mentality about the Metaverse is "Fuck Physics", that includes rigid/soft body simulation, gravity, and the physics of light too. We don't need the constraints of physical reality forced upon us in the Metaverse. If I want to fly, I should get to fly. If I want to distort the lighting of the world as it hits my avatar, I should get to. Sure physical constraints should be optional for fun, but not the default forced standard. 

I believe the thing to try to replicate in VR is much more so what one experiences in dream states, the direct perception of your mind, not the optics of a DSLR camera.

## Why? 

Might seem odd to toss another "Toon" shader in VRChat Avatar land but it became clear to me to do what I wanted I really needed to dig into it myself. Currently this does offer some shading techniques that objectively do not exist in anything else available for VRChat right now, and I have more novel techniques I intend to add. But more so the philosophy behind the development of this shader is different. To those uninitiated with VRChat avatars, full body tracking, and the whole notion of "Avatar Binding" or "Phantom Sense" you may see this shader as a complete mutilation of all things considered proper in lighting, which it may be, but it's because it's aim is entirely tangential to "correct" lighting or "Physically Based" lighting. The single driving question behind this shader is, "What increases Phantom Sense?"

It became clear to me that the shading on an avatar does affect the degree to which your mind will project on the avatar when wearing it in VR with full body tracking. It also became clear to me that Physically Based Rendering carries no correlation to the degree to which this happens, and can actually be obstructive to it. That what tends to induce a greater degree of phantom sense, of your mind projecting itself on your avatar, is if:
1. The avatar appears to you more so how your internal mind remembers perception of yourself.
2. Your mind has to process less before it recognizes that internally remembered image of itself.

What I mean by #1 is that, people internally don't remember themselves as a photograph from a DSLR camera, the internal image left in the mind is quite abstracted from literal physical reality. Often if someone sees a DSLR hi-res photo of themselves they will do a second take, either not liking the photo, or questioning "Is that what I really look like?" Because one's internal mental image is not a direct correlation to their literal physical form as a DSLR camera would capture it. My theory is that, the more you can present something to someone which matches that internal mental image of themselves, the more their mind will instinctively project themselves onto the form, creating a greater sense of binding to the avatar, and a greater degree of phantom sense.

For #2, I find the more mental energy the mind must use to process a visual before it recognizes it as itself, the less your mind will project onto it. Instead your mind gets absorbed into processing the details of the visual, rather experiencing the visual as itself. Ideally you want a visual that you can glance at and with minimal mental energy consumed it immediately registers as "You". To understand more of what I mean by this, and also to give credit where this theory is partially derived, read [this page](https://twitter.com/_rygo6/status/1523449506263576576/photo/1) from Scott McCloud's "Understanding Comics". It explains how, if shown a photograph, the mind tends to not project itself onto the photographic form as readily compared to when shown a basic smiley face. As the smiley face is universally and immediately recognizable as some aspect of "You", so when you see a smiley face, it registers to your mind as you smiling. But of course everyone running around as a basic smiley face would be boring. So I am seeking the ideal middle ground between the immediately recognizable smiley face and the realistic form. So your mind still recognizes it as "You" as aptly as the smiley face, but visually it is more idiosyncratic to "You".

Each feature of this shader, and any future features, stem from a supposed theory and observation about what may increase phantom sense. So far, and what will probably continue to be the trend in features, are things that may theoretically enable more immediate recognition of a form that are as simple as possible, and do not consume any more mental energy than the bare minimum for the form to register to your mind. As such, I am not going to be apt to add things like flashy effects, maybe at some point, but I will tend to be interested in additions and changes that have some decent reasoning as to how they could increase phantom sense. I will also tend to listen more so to those who I know experience this phenomena strongly in VR and share my interest in trying to figure out what can amplify it through first-hand observation and experience within VR.

Will need to document theories behind current features so far. Probably in wiki?
